Group 6
CSC-496
Deliverable 2
                                                  Technical Report
  Our cloud project we chose to do was option 3, installation and deployment. This required us to have an in-class
demonstration on our selected computing services on local machines. What we chose to have our project focus on was the
creation of a web server via docker, and through the docker terminal, create a simple database of our group contact
information that we can access and edit. We’ll then be able to view the database on the web browser by visiting the page we
create so it then can be displayed when we want to access it. Along with docker, we’re also using several other services to
achieve our end product. We are using LAMP, which is an acronym of for the Linux operating system, Apache HTTP server, MySQL
relational database, and PHP programming language. 
At this point in project, we have established two docker images pulled, the first being from MySQL, and the second being from
phpMyAdmin. At this point we have it working locally on our machines via Docker installed on our laptops and in so, reaching
our first milestone. We initially wanted to use CloudLab and worked for quite a while using it. We ran into some unforeseen
problems so we decided to scrap it just so we can reach the first milestone and get the ball rolling. We are attempting to go
back to CloudLab and having it ready for our last deliverable, and ultimately setup a web server on it using MySQL and
phpMyAdmin.
  Our second milestone, is to automate a simple table in our database that will have our contact information. Currently, we
were able to create via docker but we’ve encountered problems in actually creating our web interface that will directly
communicate with our database. To date, we’ve been attempting to create the web server using Apache but all we seem to have
been getting is the Apache Ubuntu default page. This means that our server is actually working correctly, but there is still
work to be done before it works correctly. One of the issues we have to resolve is declaring what port to use. Usually port 80
is the default port to use but when we attempt to use it, it says it is already in use so we have been forced to try and use
other. Our goal is to have the web server and web interface displaying our database when we present on Thursday for live demo.
  Our third milestone is to have our project fully up and working. To summarize, this will be automating our simple table and
inserting in our database which will include our phone numbers and names. And to a greater extent, we will be able to edit our
database via our terminal and then the changes will be reflected on the web server instantly. This is a fairly simple and
straightforward project, but it hasn’t been without its issues. We have been fairly happy with the progress we’ve made and we
confident that we can make the final deadline for our project next week. Essentially we will have a week to get our server up
and running and have direct communication with our database and docker file. We will feel confident that the project runs
effectively when we can edit our database on docker via the terminal, and immediately see the changes on the web server when
we refresh the page. This seems like a very manageable task to be done in the next week.
